Good evening. Uh my name is Brian
Hagerty. I'm the chair of the El Paso
Community College Board of Trustees. I
want to welcome everyone to this
evening's uh board me meeting.
Uh before we start, can everyone please
rise so we can do the pledge of
allegiance to the flag of the United
States of America and to the republic
for it stands
nationy and justice for all.
Okay.
And also before we get started at I know
Memorial Day was Monday, but the El Paso
Community College started with all the
Vietnam vets coming back from
Vietnam. So I just want to take a moment
of silence for
all the vets that didn't make it home.
So we'll just have a moment of silence,
please.
Okay. Thank you.
Uh, call the role, please. Yes, sir. Mr.
Uxer, here. Mrs. Robas, here. Miss Naha,
here. Mr. Mendes, here. Mrs. Moy, here.
Dr. Graham, here. Mr. Hagerty here.
Item 1.4, approval of minutes. There is
none. Item 1.5, welcome to guest and
staff
members. Item 1.6, open forum. There is
none.
And uh we will move to item one to
section 1.9 board of trustees business
for the swearing in of our new elected
trustees. Item 1.9.1 the board of
trustees will conduct the official
swearing in and administer the oath of
office to the newly elected members of
the board of trustees in district 4 f
district district 5 and district six.
Okay.
Good to see you.
Okay. Mr. President and members of our
trustees of our board of trustees, I'm
very honored to be administering the
oath of two of your new members of your
board.
Um, you know, as you know, this is like
coming home to me. I'm getting a little
tearary as I'm speaking. Um, this is
such a wonderful institution and to know
that all of you as dedicated public
servants have dedicated so much time and
effort to be part of this institution.
I'm just very honored to be to be here.
um to come home and and to complete you
as as a board. So, I'd like to first
call
on Mr. Mendes, Mr. Jesus Mendes, if you
could please approach.
Okay.
All right. Mr. Mendes, how are you?
Good, thank you. All right. Please raise
your right hand and repeat after me. I
state your name. I, Jesus Mendes, do
solemnly swear do solemnly swear that I
will faithfully execute that I will
faithfully execute the duties of the
office the duties of the office of El
Paso Community College of El Paso
Community College
trustee for district 4 trustee for
district 4 of the state of Texas of the
state of Texas and will to the best of
my ability and will to the best of my
ability preserve protect and defend pro
uh preserve protect protect and defend
the Constitution and laws the
Constitutions and laws of the United
States of the United States and of this
state and of this state. So help me God.
So help me God. Congratulations.
I just need you to sign on the dotted
line. Thank you. I think
I'll Congratulations.
I'd now ask that Miss Diana Yadira Moy
please approach.
Okay. How are you? I am well.
Congratulations. Thank you. All right.
Please raise your right hand and state
your name. I mean please raise your
right hand. I state your name. I, Dana
Yadira, do solemnly swear do solemnly
swear that I will faithfully execute
that I will faithfully execute the
duties of the office the duties of the
office of El Paso Community College
District of El Paso Community College
District 6 trustee for district 6
trustee for district 6 of the state of
Texas of the state of Texas and will to
the best of my ability and will to the
best of my ability preserve protect and
defend preserve preserve, protect, and
defend the Constitution and laws of the
United States. the Constitution and laws
of the United States and of this state
and of this state. So help me God. So
help me God. Congratulations. Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you, judge. I had shared with them
if I could have some moments to share um
just some gratitude. I promise I won't
uh I won't take very long. Um those that
know me know that I can't keep things uh
short um especially when I'm speaking
from the heart. So um this evening I
just want to share that it's not about
me being sworn into a position. It's
about honoring the people and the path
that brought me here. And I'd like to
begin by sharing a few words. And I'm
very passionate. So that's why you hear
my voice breaking. But I I I strongly
believe in education and the community
and what EPCC has done and the family
that is here to support me. But first to
my incredible husband. Thank you. You've
been more than a partner. You've been a
sounding board, my steady hand, and the
quiet strength that keeps everything
moving forward with uh pace when the
pace gets overwhelming. Your ability to
listen to clarity and to offer
thoughtful thoughtful perspective has
helped me to see things more clearly.
You're not just beside me, but you're in
it with me. I'm so grateful for the
friendship, the laughter, and your
unwavering
support. To our sweet son, Mikampion,
being a boy mom is one of the greatest
joys of my life. He is full of kindness,
silliness, and a pure heart. Just the
right blend of joy and goofiness that
keeps me grounded and reminds me not to
take life too seriously. He helps
others. He lifts spirits. And he shows
me what happiness looks like in motion.
He's my daily reminder of why this work
matters and the kind of future we're
building. One full compa one of uh full
of compassion, curiosity, and love. Now,
I come from a single mother household
raised by a woman who gave everything.
She instilled in me the unshakable
belief that education opens doors not
for recognition but to serve to grow and
to give without expecting anything in
return. One of the poems that shaped me
deeply growing up was la mama's mala
mundo the worst meanest mom in the
world. As a child I didn't understand
it. I only saw tough love and the many
nos. But now I realize it was about
strength, sacrifice, and love in its
most powerful form. To my mom, thank you
for being Lam Mama's Mala Mundo. You
taught me what it means to lead with
heart and with purpose. To my sister and
RKO, my extended family, you have
surrounded me with love, encouragement
through every step, and your belief in
me means more than words can say. And to
my lifelong friends, thank you for being
here. Thank you for being the ones that
I can always count on to show up, to
cheer, to remind me of who I am.
And again, for being here today and to a
dear friend, you know who you are. Thank
you for planting that seed that could
that seed that that reiterated that I
could serve in this role. You encouraged
me to step forward, believed in my
voice, and walked with me every step of
the way. So, as someone who has served
in public education, I've always led
with a servant's heart. And now, I bring
the same heart to this board. And for
me, this role is not a title. It's an
extension of my calling to teach, to
guide, and to empower others through
education. I deeply believe in Dr.
Sarata's vision for El Paso Community
College. His leadership has rooted in
access, equity, and excellence. And I'm
honored to join this board made up of
our trustees who have given so much, not
only for their knowledge, but for the
heart. and I look forward to learning
from you and contributing alongside you.
Lifelong learning doesn't stop at a
degree. It happens every day in our
homes, in our workplaces, and in our
lives. And I see this position as a way
to educate not just in the classroom,
but throughout our community to shine a
light on the incredible things EPCC is
doing and to help it help it grow and
impact even further. As Ralph Waldo
Emerson once wrote, "Do not follow where
the path may lead. Go instead where
there is no path and leave a trail. I'm
ready to carve new trails, ones that
connect our students to opportunity, our
educators to support, and our community
to the power of education. Thank you to
the community for trusting me. I'm
honored to serve, and I can't wait to
get back to work. I know I said I would
keep it short, but I'm very passionate.
Thank you,
Judge. How are you?
I know. I saw you.
Yes, you.
Good to see you.
Okay. Now, we're going to square in the
second long longest trustee at the
community college. Dr. Graham, you come
come down, please.
Okay, you ready? You're supposed to
congratulate me.
Congratulations. I'm congratulating you
for putting up with me for so many
years.
That's That's a That's a job in itself.
Yes. All right. Repeat after me. I state
your name. I, Carmen Oliva Scram, do
solemnly swear. do solemnly swear that I
will faithfully execute that I will
faithfully execute the duties of the
office the duties of the office of the
El Paso Community College District
Trustee District 5 of the Community
College District Trustee District 5
uh of the state of Texas of the state of
Texas and will to the best of my ability
and will to the best of my ability
preserve preserve protect protect and
defend and defend and the Constitution
the Constitution and the laws of the
United States and the laws of the United
States and of this state and of the
state. So help me God. So help me God.
Congratulations. Oh, thank you.
You stuck with me for another six years.
Uh just thank you to my constituents
that voted or anyone that um carried me
forth a few years ago when I only won by
four votes and then later by seven and I
don't even I didn't even look at the
votes this time. I just figured it's
going to happen. Um but I'm very
encouraged with the board of trustees
that we have at EPCC. I think uh
compared to other boards, we're an
exemplary board in our community and we
are very happy that we've got people
joining us that share the vision and the
laser focus
um attention to all that we um are going
to provide for students in the coming
years. And yes, I'll put up with Judge
Heggerty. And now we've been together I
think what 19 years something like that
forever. So thank you all for being here
and supporters.
That's a big
All right. Well, we're going to take a
short break so the new members of the
board can mingle with their families and
take some pictures. So, we're going to
take a few minutes to take a break. So,
don't be so quiet and get up.
Congratulate.
All right, we're back in
section I'm sorry. Countdown. No. Are we
back on? We're back on. Yes, ma'am.
Section 1.7 Presentations by
individuals, groups, and organizations.
Item
1.7.1, Mr. Daniel Graves, partner
advisory of Weaver and Tidwell LLP, will
present the results of the risk
assessment to include the audit plan.
Good evening. Good evening. Thank you.
Uh, I do have a brief presentation. I'll
try and keep it brief. I know you guys
have a lot tonight. Uh but I do want to
present to you our risk assessment uh
process. It covers quite a few things.
So I'll do a quick introduction, talk
about our approach, the purpose of the
risk assessment, what we did through our
planning stages, and then ultimately
resulting in our proposed four-year plan
that I'd like to present to
you. So in our introduction here, I just
wanted to there's a lot on this slide. I
know you probably have it in your
material, so I'm not going to read it
all, but the risk assessment was a
facilitated risk assessment and that's
really the point of this slide. We
didn't come in as a third party to the
college and say, "We know what your
risks are. We're going to assess it." We
actually had a independent objective
viewpoint where we facilitated this
through uh key leadership in the college
who participated in the risk assessment.
And so wanted you to to know that that
this isn't just ours um but this is uh
our way to facilitate your own internal
risk assessment and then we helped uh
validate that and then develop the
internal audit plan from that. So the
purpose of the whole risk assessment
process really ultimately is to look at
inherent risks of the college and
develop a internal audit plan. And so
this is a snapshot of what risk is when
we did the risk assessment. So for this
fiscal year, um, we looked at a the
inherent risk. We'll talk more about
that later. We took a multi-year
approach into the overall internal audit
plan. We factored in college time and
resources and really looked at the most
influential risks that uh are here and
present at the college through all the
significant activities that take place
just because you exist and choose to
pursue some of the things you pursue as
an organization.
So the risk assessment in this graphic
is really what's included is in the box
in this one graphic. So we started with
risk
identification conducted the risk
assessment then we use the in developed
the internal audit plan. The last piece
of that is part of the internal audit
function which is the ultimate
monitoring which we would do once the
plan's approved. Um the risk is we're
looking at is any event that has a
potential to negatively impact the
achievement of the college's objectives.
And so when we talk about those we talk
about inherent versus residual risk. And
so this is a concept we talked a lot
about when we did our risk assessment
meeting. It's a little bit foreign to
most people um but it is a common way
for an internal audit practice to to
assess risk. So inherent risk is really
the risk in an uncontrolled state versus
residual risk which considers internal
controls. And so uh what you see in the
risk assessment there's several things
in the red in the high but that is
because it's an inherent risk assessment
not residual. And so one easy way to
think about it is uh when we're talking
through the risk assessment, we were
talking with the the president and the
cabinet members and we said, you know,
they said, well, this is low risk
because we have policies and procedures
and we do monitoring. And I said, well,
you do policies and have procedures and
perform monitoring because you have a
higher inherent risk. What you're
talking about is residual risk. And so
that is something that I just wanted you
to to keep in mind from an internal
audit perspective. We base the plan on
inherent risk. We then perform internal
audit procedures to validate and provide
assurance that the confidence you have
in the residual risk is accurate. So
that we confirm all the controls, the
policies, procedures that they're
operating effectively so that you can
have confidence then in your residual
risk because it's a facilitated risk
assessment. You'll see here these are
all the members who participated in the
risk assessment. Uh these individuals
assisted us in uh providing insight into
the influential risk categories what
risks we considered as part of the risk
assessment. The all the significant
activities that we put together. They
participated in the forum where we
performed the risk rating. Uh then there
was some assistance and interpretation
of some of the risk assessment results
and we when we talked about the internal
audit plan uh we got some background on
college monitoring activities. And so
the risks that we included, again,
there's a lot on this page, but we broke
them down. We had about weaver has a
bank of about 17 different risk
categories, and you'll see many of them
listed here. We combined several of them
to come up with five key risk groups.
Starting with financial, economic, and
fraud risk. So those were three
different categories that we combined
and defined as one risk group.
operations, compliance, and human
capital. So, this has a lot to do with
uh scalable processes and having the
right people in the right places to do
those activities. Student experience is
the next. So, that's really your
customer service. What are we doing? You
know, the this is one of the big ones,
right? Because that's what we're here
for is to give the students the
educational experience that they need.
The next is risk uh sorry, information
technology risk. So, that has a whole
lot in it. That's cyber security. That's
basic blocking and tackling of uh also
information technology functions. That's
support dependence on it. And then
finally we have reputation and strategic
risk. And so that's your your headline
risk.
Uh what are we worried about hitting on
you know the newspaper front page. Um
and then are we effective strategically?
So those were the five main risk
categories that we included. And we
assessed these five categories through
the significant activities. And so we
looked at um the basic internal basic
activities that any organization has
such as purchasing, human resources,
basic IT, uh financial reporting, some
and payroll. Those are the five basic
that almost any organization has. But
then we looked at all the different
activities, all the different programs
and uh all the different things that a
community college has to do because they
exist and because they undertake some of
the the goals and missions that they do.
And we defined all of those with the
risk assessment leadership team. Uh we
broke those out into major categories
and then further defined each one of
those
uh in into subcategories below the major
categories. And so we ended up with 54
major categories. And so we assess those
five risk categories across all 54 of
these significant activities. And below
each one of these 54, we further defined
what those
are. We then conducted a risk assessment
forum where we looked at the probability
and impact of those five risk categories
across those uh 54 different significant
activities.
Once that was done, we went back, we did
some some basic math uh and then looked
at some of the ratings and and really
assessed them from a qualitative
standpoint. We made some adjustments. uh
we consulted with management in making
those and then that resulted in what we
have is a risk assessment a risk rated
internal audit universe which is just a
really uh internal audit auditor way of
saying you know we finished with it and
this is what it looks like and so this
is your your risk rated practice from
high to low for the top 37 and you'll
see it's on a one to four scale uh one
being low four being high Again, we
have, you know, almost 20 that are red
and high, but this is an inherent risk
basis, not a residual risk basis. I I
just want to remind uh everyone of that
because this is really how we're going
to now, this is what we now use to plan
for our internal
audits, the long-term internal audit
practice. And we've got another, you
know, kind of pretty way to display it.
These uh numbers here correspond to the
54 listed that you already have seen.
So, that maps out
the internal audit plan. We looked at it
from a lot of different ways. We really
in doing that we considered the risk
ratings uh what was high, what was low
uh any emerging risks or risks that have
recently changed. We wanted to look at
those as those uh creep up. Also, we
looked at the timing audit timing of the
audits in a multi-year approach. Anytime
we do audits, we want to make sure that
we're not overloading any one area of
the college with repeated audits year
after year. Uh because we also have
follow-up procedures. And so any mature
internal audit function once you perform
an audit, you follow up on it the next
year to make sure that those items have
been resolved. And so we've included
that as well. Uh we we put together a
four-year plan that you can see from a a
strategic timeline. uh those audits are
are structured so that they build on one
another from year to year. It also
considers the time that uh the audit
that the departments within the college
would need to respond to audit requests
as well as remediate findings.
Um and so when in this plan I'm we're
only asking for you to approve year one.
And the reason we ask for that we
present all four years because we want
you to see the structured layered and
methodical approach that we've put
together. But we will reassess and
refresh the risk assessment uh in a much
lighter way than we did this year. We'll
we'll do that every year and reassess
the internal audit plan and say, does
this make sense for where we're at
today? And so what you saw was a
snapshot of fiscal year 2025. We will
refresh that every year and you'll see
it again for 26, 27, and so on. So in in
doing that, we're recommending that um
we perform an internal audit over
financial aid. And you'll see in the the
planned uh summary procedures that will
include everything from uh institutional
financial aid uh the student success
endowment scholarships, state and
federal uh veterans affairs, PEL
requirements, local tuition waiverss,
discounts. Those are all areas that will
be considered when we scope that. Uh we
also have included in here an
institutional effectiveness and
reporting
uh advisory engagement, an advisory
audit. And so there's a little bit
different between an internal audit and
an advisory audit. An advisory is more
consultative in nature. The the
institute of internal audit standards
allow for internal auditors to work in a
consultative capacity. And what we plan
and what we've discussed with management
here and they've asked us to include
this is uh really doing some advising
and consulting around the HBA reporting
and data collection. We've done this at
a couple other community colleges in
Texas and it's been a very good success
for those clients. And so that's really
where this is centered and what we
intend to to spend that time on is
really around the HBA reporting with
some of the newer u changes that are
occurring through this legisl
legislative session. Uh we've that's
what we would cover here. Uh we'll also
perform follow-ups on the SB17
compliance audit that we performed just
to see the few areas that we had
recommendations on. uh were addressed.
And then we have just as part of the
other plan, we have basic project
management, a risk assessment update,
internal audit plan, and then there's an
annual internal audit report that we
will also file. Um you will see that
later again this year because we'll
complete one for this year. The Texas
Internal Audit Act has an annual
reporting requirement that is a summary
report of all the activity. Uh the
guidance for that comes out in August
and so we've included that on all the
successive plans. So, that's our
proposed plan for fiscal 26. For 27, uh,
we're recommending an information
technology services audit. We've, u,, if
you look back, and I'm not going to flip
to to give everybody, uh, whiplash on
the slides, but information technology
services was our number one risk rated
activity and information security was
number two. So, we're recommending
information technology in our second
year of our internal audit plan. one to
to give them a year's notice of this is
coming in 27 so that we can be prepared.
But then also
um when we we do this there's a lot in
this and we're recommending it before
information security because this is the
basic blocking and tackling and and the
core backbone of the central nervous
system of the college's communication
system but it is also a basic building
block for information security. This
will have a few light security items in
it. You'll see in here uh things like
user provisioning, some b some basic
security, but there will be a much
deeper security audit is what we've
recommended uh in year four. This also
includes follow-ups and the the regular
uh annual requirements of the audit
report from the risk assessment refresh
28. We've proposed safety and security.
again uh we've not proposed that we do
information technology and then
information security backtoback because
of remediation and planned follow-up. So
we'll have we would expect that there
would be follow-up in 2028 and so it
would be a lighter touch for the IT
department uh where we would look at
safety and security across the college.
You can see all the areas that would be
potentially included in that. Um, and
then as in the final year for our our
four-year plan, we've recommended
information security again with all the
other annual requirements. And so from a
four-year approach, it really looks at
financial aid, HB8 reporting,
information technology, safety,
security, and then information security.
Um, but again, we're only asking for the
fiscal year 2026 plan to be approved
because we will refresh this and
represent the multi-year uh next year as
well. Any questions?
Would you remind me again what HDA
stands for? House Bill 8. Uh, House Bill
House Bill 8. And that was the uh House
Bill and and Dr. Sarata, you may want to
Sure. Yeah, Mr.
No, I just didn't understand what the
the Yeah. House. Got it. House Bill 8.
House Bill 8 approved in the 2023
session. Okay. Now it looks to me that
when you put this risk assessment, you
took the areas and functions and you
sliced and diced and you came up and
rated everything one to four. Okay.
Particip was this an individual
aggregation without consultation? Was it
a group meeting? Did they all get
together and would do this or did you
know when you go back to what Yeah.
Okay. Did
uh did the participants then
individually rate this? So everybody
rated their own uh one to four rating
and then this is the average or once how
did that work or did you all together
and agree or vote agree discuss that's
that's a great question. So we did not
average what we did is we we gave them a
packet and we gave uh the risk
assessment team homework. So your your
auditor gave everybody homework which is
really fun to do in a a educational
environment. Uh and we asked them to go
through their areas and rank them
themselves one to four. We gave them a a
set of instructions. Then we all met. We
all sat in a room for I think almost
five hours and went through this
together and arrived at a consensus. And
so we didn't average because if one
person chooses one and one person
chooses four, it averages out and you
don't really get a true waiting. So we
actually had very active discussion over
these different probability and impact
ratings that were given and arrived at a
consensus with that risk assessment
team. Again, it was we facilitated that
discussion. They arrived at these
ratings and then we helped, you know,
vet them out and and see say, do that
does that really make sense based on
what we know and what we've seen at
other institutions. So, so each
participant came up with the number one
to four. Yes, sir. And then you took
what all the participants and then
averaged them. Is that how that work?
No, there you come up with 3.81. How'd
you get 3.81 1 if well there there was
no act. So the the five major columns so
everything under financial economic and
fraud we have a probability rating of
four and an impact rating of four for
the first one. So we went and we gave
all of those then the probability
subtotal and the impact subtotal those
are averages of all the other
scores put together. So that's where the
averaging comes in. Yes sir. That's
where the the mathematics comes in. But
the group but the group then agreed that
yeah uh as a group that it this is this
area is a four. Correct. Okay. And so it
was it was a group consensus. Yes sir.
Okay. Now who's the group was that the
uh the staff the the members that you
identified on that slide? Yes sir. Okay.
This group here. Yes sir.
So we made sure that we had
representation from all areas of the
college
uh and tried to have a really a broad
holistic look of everyone who could
participate.
So again we didn't we didn't come in and
say we know what your risks are here's
your risk ratings. We said this is this
is the concept of risk rating. This is
the concept of the risk assessment. We
led that, facilitated it and then
honestly when there were ratings that
were given that I didn't think made
sense, it's our job to play devil's
advocate and ask questions and that's
what facilitated the discussion to
arrive at the consensus scores. So okay
is a consensus on
individual. Okay I understand.
And sir I have a question or several who
when you uh address the audits who does
the timely audits is that your job or is
that the job of the cabinet the uh can
you ask that in a different way? Yes.
You said that there will be ongoing
audits. Yes. every year, one year, next
year, next year. And who's responsible
for those audits? Is that something
we're hired you all to do or is that
something the college uh leaders? Yes,
that was in in
the request for proposal. We proposed on
that to to be the internal auditor. I
believe it's a five-year contract or one
year plus multiple renewals. And so,
yes, that would be us performing those
audits. And um is there an advantage to
say for example the college going for
the because we approve one year at a
time right? Uh is there an advantage to
approve all the years together?
You you could do that but the reason we
recommend to not do that is because the
risk profile may change from year to
year and therefore you may want to
change the plan from year to year. So we
only ask for one year at a time. It's
not because you're going to increase the
price the next year. No, that our
contract's locked in. We have an annual
budget that we stay within. And so those
are the audits that we think we could do
inside that and and we'll scope and
structure them so that we can make sure
and stay on budget. And how long did it
take you to put this all together? More
or less. I don't have the the amount of
time, but it it usually takes us between
80 to 100 hours to facilitate this from
start to finish.
and and in subsequent years it's much
less. We usually do it in less than 20
because it's a refresh and it's not a a
wholesale refresh of the risk
assessment. So, uh all the subsequent
years as we relook at it and refresh it,
we can usually do that in in under 20
hours.
And with safety and security being
proposed for um maybe 2028, I believe
that's the year. Um is that because
there's a lower risk? So, does that mean
that everything's pretty safe that we
don't need to
focus in? Safety and security was number
five on the the risk rated universe. Um,
but on the auditing it, doesn't it go to
2028?
We will not audit it until 2028. Again,
this is an inherent risk. So I can't
tell you that you I haven't gone in and
audited so I can't tell you that you
have a safe environment. We looked at it
from an inherent basis. So then we would
go in once we do the audit then I can
tell you if you have if your controls
and your procedures are operating as
intended and that's the way this is
structured. So we we start with an
inherent basis not including or thinking
about controls so that then we can give
you assurance that of of what your
environment looks like. if you have
internal control gaps or internal
controls that aren't operating as you
expect them to be. Okay. Thank you. And
Dr. Sarata, the question I have for you
is will we be getting a copy of
this report? Yes, Dr. Graham. So, um we
will and then after every audit um Mr.
Graves will come and present to the
board um the results of that respective
audit. He'll provide um a synopsis to
the cabinet as well, but then it
ultimately comes to the board for
approval just because it's a lot of
information to digest it all at once.
Totally understand. Yes, we'll make sure
you get a copy. Thank you.
Any other questions? Thank you, sir.
Item
1.7.2, Dr. William Sarata, college
president, will recognize individuals
who have retired from El Paso Community
College. Judge Hagerty and members of
the board, always a bittersweet moment.
Um, while we are happy for our employees
that have reached retirement, um, it's
always bittersweet for us. I'm going to
acknowledge uh, Miss Cynthia Gabariti.
Um, Cynthia Gai began her remarkable
journey with El Paso Community College
in October
1989. Her return to El Paso that year
after living in Jordan for a decade
marked the beginning of a career filled
with dedication, growth, and heartfelt
service to the community college. Her
first role was as a seasonal
registration clerk at the Rio Grande
campus. She worked under the supervision
of Rosa Royo and Martha Arzo. And
between registration periods, Miss
Gavariti supported the admissions office
part-time. Her work ethic and enthusiasm
soon led to opportunity to new
opportunities. One day, Rosa Royo
introduced her to Miss Marta de lae,
then director of continuing education
for health. That meeting marked a
turning point. She was hired as a
part-time clerk and by October 1996
became a full-time administrative office
assistant. In 1998 with the opening of
the mission del Paso campus, Miss
Gabariti transitioned to help staff from
continuing education health office home
to the second EPCC certified nursing
program assistant. Uh her
responsibilities grew to include support
for the emergency medical services and
licensed vocational nursing programs
eventually resulting in a shared
position between continuing education
and credit health programs under the
guidance of Dr. Paula Mitchell. As
leadership evolved, Miss Gabiti now
reports to Miss Cheryl Styles, director
of CE Health, and Dr. Shariah Hajar,
dean of health, CTE, maths, and science
division. Beyond her daily
responsibilities, she has been an active
and passionate member of the EPCC
community. She served as the classified
staff rights and responsibilities
officer and vice president of the
classified staff association at the
Mission Del Paso campus. She coordinated
the CSA craft vendor fair for many years
and is a proud graduate of the EPCC
leadership academy. For seven years, she
co-f facilitated the EPCC staff retreat
alongside Alex Ednandez, Mari Rees, and
Dr. Andrew Pena. Miss Gavariti also
conti contributed her time and talents
to numerous committees including the
mission delaso campus improvement team
where she served as secretary as well as
the EMSP EMSP and patient care
technician advisory committees serving
as meeting recorder for both. Reflecting
on her time at EPCC, she shares her
gratitude for the many meaningful
experiences and connections she has
made. She considers these relationships
a vital part of her extended EPCC
family, one she will always she will
always treasure and deeply miss. Her
favorite quote fittingly from the Wizard
of Oz beautifully captures her EPCC
journey. It's not where you go, it's who
you meet along the way. Miss Cavariti,
on behalf of El Paso Community College,
thank you for your years of service and
we wish you the best in your retirement.
Please come.
Okay.
Item 1.7.3 optional presentations will
be made by the presidents of the
classified staff association, the pro
the professional staff association, the
faculty association, and the student
government association. It's almost
over.
No slideshow today.
I just want to say uh to our new
trustee, Mrs. Muie, on behalf as
president of the faculty association,
want to welcome you to the college and
to the board of trustees and look
forward to working with you.
Congratulations on your victory and
congratulations to our two trustees who
emerge victorious in the races.
Thank you.
That's the shortest last. That was
quick.
Section 1.8, communications, item 1.8.1,
discussion and review regarding data,
statistics, policies, and general
information related to El Paso Community
College by the board of trustees.
Chair Hagerty and members of the board,
um I was up this u particular meeting to
provide the board with a legislative
update. However, um as Dr. Burnham would
agree with me. They're not quite done on
some specific bills that I want to
ensure that I provide the board with um
the actual letter of the law. Um and so
I'm going to postpone um my presentation
until the month of June. Um again, I
will provide the board with an overview
of the legislation that was passed that
pertains to the college and actions that
will be required of us. um in particular
SB uh 37 is one that we're keeping a
close eye on. I know Dr. Bham and his
colleagues as well as um those of us in
administration continue to keep an eye
on it, but I don't want to misspeak and
so we'll wait till um the conference
committee uh finishes its work on SB37.
Section 1.9 board of trustees business.
Item 1.9.2 Two, discussion and action on
the election of chair of the board of
trustees. I make a motion that we
nominate judge hegerty as chair of the
board. Second.
Any discussion?
Call the question. Mr. Accept. Oh, of
course.
Mr. Xter I. Mrs. Robless. I Miss Nah. I
Mr. Mendes. Hi. Mrs. Moy. I Dr. Graham.
I Mr. Mr. Hagerty. I
item 1.9.3 discussion and action on the
election of vice chair of the board of
trustees. I make a motion that uh Miss
Bonnie Sodia serve as the vice chair of
the board of trustees.
Any discussion? Any other
nominations? Call the question. I second
right here. I move that the nomination
cease and she be elected by acclamation.
Keep it straight there. M.
Mr. Xer, hi. Mrs. Robless. Hi, Miss
Nahara. Hi, Mr. Mendes. Hi, Mrs. Moy.
Hi, Dr. Graham. Hi, Mr. Hagerty. I Item
1.9.4 discussion and action on the
election of secretary of the board of
trustees.
I have a motion. Make a motion that we
have Dr. Graham, Dr. Carman Leas Graham
as secretary of the board.
I second.
Any
discussion? Any other nominees?
Call the question. Mr. Xter. Mrs.
Robiss. I I move that the nomination
cease and she deducted by acclamation.
Okay. Miss Naha.
I Well, there was a motion. Yes. But no
second. I'll second the motion. Okay.
Miss Mrs. Mo second. Second. See there's
there's already a motion on the floor.
So after we continue like that instead
of moving the acclamation because there
was already a first and the second
Mr. Mendes I Mrs. Moy I Dr. Graham I Mr.
Hagerty. Hi. Congratulations.
Items 1.9.5 and 1.9.6 will be discussed
after executive session. Section 1.10
board reports. Item 1.10.1 treasures
report. No action is required. Item
11.10.1.1 April 30th, 2025, financial
statements. Item
1.10.2, President's Report. Item
11.10.2.1. Dr. William Sarata, college
president, will update the board of
trustees and audience on recent recent
events that have transpired at El Paso
Community College.
Good afternoon, Chair Hagerty and
members of the board. I'd like to begin
my report by sharing that operation
collegebound was in full force these
past few months uh with faculty and
staff visiting multiple high schools
with every school district in El Paso
County. This important outreach effort
is an important partnership with UTEP,
bringing EPCC's recruitment and student
services departments uh to local high
school campuses to help advise on
continuing their education and helping
them register for the summer and fall
semesters. At Operation Collegebound,
high school students meet with the
admissions department for course
information, new student orientation
services, financial aid, firstear
experience, counseling, and testing
services. Operation Collegebound wrapped
up on May the 3 with Tahano Day at the
Trans Mountain campus. Many thanks to
Dr. Amaya, Dr. Lacha Chavez, uh Mr.
Talamantes, Miss Lopez, and their teams
for uh for finishing up Operation
Collegebound successfully. On May 17th,
the UPCC Foundation hosted a special
lunchon celebrating 50 years of nursing
graduates from our associate degree in
nursing program. This program began in
1972 and its first class proudly
graduated in the
1974-75 academic year. Since then, we
have graduated over 6,100 nurses, many
of whom continue to shape and strengthen
health care throughout our region. The
lunchon was a celebration of our legacy
and forward-looking fundraiser. Uh we
welcome leaders from all of the major
healthc care organizations and our
higher education partners across the
community. Thanks to their generous
support, the event raised over
$25,000, which will be used to establish
the college's first nursing endowment.
This endowment will provide scholarships
to nursing students for generations to
come. I'm happy to share that last month
we had another successful fully booked
massageathon. The health clinic reported
that the event was fully booked by the
end of the first day of advertising. Uh
it was great. It was a great event and
experience for our students who worked
hard to make this happen.
Congratulations to our students and
everyone involved. Texas Mutual
Insurance along with Borderlex Workforce
Solutions and Texas Tech of El Paso
provided EPCC with a check for
$55,000 to secure funding for our
medical assistant students performing
their practicum at Texas Tech Clinics.
The EPCC medical assisting technology
program will collaborate closely with
these partners to continue this great
funding opportunity for our students.
Marta Garcia, EPCC certified medical
assistant student, gave a heartfelt
speech of gratitude for the grant award
and was featured on local media on May
the 6th. I would further like to
highlight that the medical assisting
technology program concluded the spring
semester with a remarkable
accomplishment, a 100% pass exam pass
rate. All students who sat for the
certified medical assistant exam
administered by the national health
career association on May the second 2nd
successfully passed. This outstanding
achievement reflects the hard work,
dedication and academic excellence of
our students as well as the unwavering
commitment of our faculty and staff who
prepare our students to succeed.
Congratulations to all for the great
work and student success. The health
professions and related sciences
discipline proudly celebrates the first
class of 12 high school students from
the Silva magnet PEK program who earned
their border health issues certificate
on Friday, May the 16th. As they pursue
health careers, these future
professionals are better better equipped
to serve the unique needs of the US
Mexico border region as part of the
multid-disiplinary health care team.
Thank you to our EPISD partners for
helping make this milestone possible.
The surgical technology program is proud
to announce that 100% of the spring 2025
graduates passed their certified
surgical technologist
exam and 100% pass rate. Additionally,
the new cohort of students who made up
the first staggered enrollment cohort
for the program all passed the two
spring semester foundational program
courses with exceptional grades.
Congratulations to all. Earlier this
month, several future EPCC students were
honored as recipients of the McDonald's
El Paso Scholarship Program. This marks
the sixth successful collaboration
between EPCC and local McDonald's owner
operator, Dr. Richard Castro, whose
visionary leadership has established
this impactful scholarship initiative,
opening doors to higher education for
countless El Paso students. In a
continued effort to expand educational
access and impact, McDonald's El Paso
renewed its partnership with both EPCC
and UTEP. Through this initiative,
McDonald's El Paso awarded $50,000 in
scholarship scholarships to eligible
students planning to attend either
institution during the 202526 academic
year. Thanks to a matching grant from
the EPCC Foundation, 11 incoming EPCC
students receive full tuition
scholarships, each covering 12 credit
hours per semester for their first year
of college. The scholarships totaled
$3,264 per student, covering all tuition
and fees. Since 2019 and the inception
of this partnership with McDonald's El
Paso and the UPCC Foundation, 71
incoming students have received
scholarships totaling more than
$227,000. Congratulations to our
students.
The EPCC Leadership Academy class of
2025 recently celebrated 21 years of
developing future leaders. The latest
session featured leadership and time
management insights from notable
community figures including El Paso
Mayor Renard Johnson, YWCA CEO Sure
Barlo, Green Hope Project President
Candace Prince, Town Square Media's Brad
Dubo, and EPCC Veterans Center Mr. Carl
Dwire, EPCC cabinet members and I led a
half-day session sharing leadership
lessons and reinforcing EPCC's
commitment to transpar transparenc
transparency and employee engagement.
Participants also attended an El Pas El
Paso Chihuahua's game, viewed the film
Crash, and received crisis management
training from emergency management
officials. As part of the program, the
class of 2025 meets regularly with
institutional leaders through bimonthly
accelerated sessions and monthly
leadership meetings with graduation set
for June
2025. This initiative underscores EPCC's
long-standing commitment to internal
leadership development and
organizational excellence. The EPCC
chapter of the Texas Association of
Chicanos in Higher Education or TAC
proudly awarded 2025 student
scholarships to Denise Dominguez,
Jessica Ramidz, and Angie Jayen Akuna.
Each student received a $200 scholarship
funded entirely through local
fundraising by the student chapter. This
marks the first scholarship distribution
since 2014 following a period of
declining membership. The chapter has
since experienced a strong resurgence,
growing from just four active members
during the pandemic to 30 today. EPCC
and Far West Texas uh West Far West DACA
president Gilbert Silva credited the
chapter success to community involvement
and commitment to student support. In
addition to scholarships, the chapter
funded travel for three students to
attend the DACA state conference in
Austin. As the first DACA student
chapter in Texas, EPCC continues to lead
statewide through service, advocacy, and
leadership development. Thank you,
President Silva, and congratulations to
the scholarship recipients.
Congratulations, Coach Susi, the staff,
and the student athletes for concluding
a historic and highly successful 2025
season with an overall record of 39 and
19. This year marked a major milestone
for the program, showcasing strong
growth and competitive performance. Key
accomplishments
include first winning overall and WJCAC
conference records along with their
first playoff appearance and the most
road wins in a seasons since 2008.
most overall wins in a season since
2003, most conference wins since 2004,
and most home victories in program
history at 27 home victories this
season. This year's performance marks a
remarkable turnaround for the Tahanos,
representing a major step forward that
reinforces momentum and establishes a
solid foundation for long-term athletic
success. To conclude my report, I'd like
to congratulate the class of
2025. The spring 2025 commencement was
held on Friday, May 16th, with over
2,300 graduates and over 1,700 walking
the stage. Congratulations to all our
graduates and our appreciation to the
faculty, staff, and administrators who
made this happen. Want to thank all of
the board members for attending as well.
Um, this concludes my report. I believe
that we have a video on commencement as
well.
Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen. I
am William Sarata and I have the
privilege of serving as president of El
Paso Community College. Welcome to our
spring 2025 El Paso Community College
commencement exercise.
As we celebrate your hard work, I ask
that you reflect on the many sacrifices
from both you and your families that
made today possible. The theologian
Howard Thurman once wrote, quote, "There
are few things more devastating than to
have it burned into you that you do not
count." End quote. Well, class of 2025,
you count. You matter. And how you live
your life from this moment forward will
help others believe that they matter,
too. You see, the truth is that deep and
lasting change in our communities, in
our institutions, and our society, it
doesn't start with laws or with budgets.
It starts with character. It starts with
conscience. It starts with
you.
Heat. Heat.
Heat.
Very nice.
Certainly want to thank EPCC TV for a
great job on the video. Chair Harity,
that concludes my report. I'm happy to
respond to any questions that the board
may have.
Section section 1.11 consent docket.
There is none. Section two,
administration. Item one 2.1 CAK local
tazby revised policy for first reading
review and comment only. No action is
required. Section three personnel item
3.1 information items institutionally
external externally funded full-time
staff and faculty appointments
extensions resignations and retirements.
No action is
required. It item 3.2 tenure track
faculty appointments and new tenur
faculty. Move to approve.
Have a second. Second. Any
discussion? Call a question. Mr. Uxer.
Hi. Mrs. Robless. I. Miss Naha. Hi. Mr.
Mendes. Hi. Mrs. Moy. Hi. Dr. Graham.
Hi. Mr. Hagerty. Hi.
Section four, financial services. There
is none. Section five, physical facil
facilities. There is none. Section six,
curriculum and instruction. Item 6.1,
discussion and action on the acceptance
of an apprenticeship training program
grant amendment from the Texas Workforce
Commission, TWWC, in the amount of
$85,989.
Move to approve. Second. Any discussion?
Chair Hagerty, I'd like Dr. Smith to
acknowledge those that have worked on
this, please.
Dr. Sata and board. Thank you. Uh this
is um a typical reallocation on our
apprenticeship training grant. There's
typically a reallocation uh midyear
based on actual performance. And as you
can see, we've uh increased that
dramatically. Uh I'd like to recognize
uh AVP Blaine Primisuch, Jose Kasal
Lopez, and of course our grants office
under the leadership of Bob Elliot.
Thank you. Great job. Great job. Yes.
Thank you.
Call a question.
Mr. Uxer. Hi Mrs. Robless. I Miss Naha.
Hi. Mr. Menddees. Hi. Mrs. Moy. Hi. Dr.
Graham. Hi. Mr. Hagerty. I.
Item 6.2. Discussion and action on the
approval of a cooperative agreement
revision from the University of Texas at
San Antonio in the amount of $67,627.
Move to approve. Record.
Any discussion? I have a question. What
what is this for, Dr.
Uh, Judge Hagerty? So, um, maybe for the
edification of some of our newer board
members as well. We run the Small
Business Development Center here in El
Paso uh as part of our cooperative
agreement to through UT San Antonio. Uh,
it's uh funded by a mix of institutional
dollars as well as grant funding dollars
from uh UT San Antonio. So their uh
fiscal year doesn't line up necessarily
with our fiscal year. And so what you'll
see every year is uh a smaller
allocation to get us through uh
operating through December. We expect
another allocation, a larger allocation
before December to extend us through the
rest of the academic year. Um but um if
you look at the number of clients served
etc on this uh grant or this board
abstract you see that we have a pretty
significant uh impact on the local
economy through our small business
development center. Um present in the
audience is Audrey Maruo our current
director of that. So thank you for your
efforts there.
Very impressive.
I don't get it. Why why San Antonio?
uh they're just the funer of the large
grant uh that passes through to the
other small business development
centers. So they do the whole state just
is it the state give the money to San
Antonio? I want to say it's national but
I will defer to AP primich if he knows
if that's just through the state or if
that's national. I I don't get it. Does
the state give it to them and then they
disperse it? Correct.
Yeah, they must have
a senator or somebody on the board here.
Um, so actually the state is divided
into four main districts and every
district has a lead institution that
receives the grant. So it's funded
through the Small Business
Administration and then to the
districts. And so
UTSA covers everything from Austin South
and West. And then the other large
district is the area around Dallas Fort
Worth and then the panhandle and and far
east Texas make up the other two. Okay.
Thank you.
Any other
discussion? Call a question. Mr. Uter.
Hi. Mrs. Robless. Hi. Miss Naha. Hi. Mr.
Mendes. Hi. Mrs. Moy I Dr. Graham I Mr.
Hagerty I item 6.3 discussion and action
on the approval of the restated and
amended JM Hanks Early College High
School interlocal agreement move to
approve second any discussion
this is very similar to the others that
we were approved for the updating that's
correct
call a question Mr. Xer hi Mrs. Robless.
I Miss Naha. Hi. Mr. Mendes. Hi. Mrs.
Moy. Abstain with a clarification that
this is due to my position at YSD.
Thank you. Dr. Graham.
I. Mr. Hagerty. I. Section seven,
student services. Item 7.1, discussion
and action on the approval of continuing
education CE tuition rates for new
courses. Move to approve.
Second. Any discussion? Call a question.
Mr. Exter. Hi. Mrs. Robless. Hi. Miss
Naha. Hi. Mr. Menddees. Hi. Mrs. Moy.
Hi. Dr. Graham. Hi. Mr. Hagerty. Hi.
Item 7.2. Discussion and action on the
approval of continuing education CE
tuition rates for revised courses. Move
to approve. Second. Any
discussion? Call the question. Mr. Uxer.
Hi. Mrs. Robless. I. Miss Maher. Hi. Mr.
Mendes. Hi. Mrs. Moy. Hi. Dr. Graham. I.
Mr. Hagerty. I. Section 8, Community
Services. There is none. Would the board
like to go into executive session? Yes.
Item 1.3, executive and close session.
The board of trustees may conduct an
executive or close session pursuant to
chapter 551 of the Texas Government Code
for one or more of the following
reasons. One, consultation with its
attorney to seek or receive legal advice
or consultation regarding pending or
contemplated litigation or for any
purpose authorized by law. Two,
discussion about the value or transfer
of real property. Three, discussion
about a prospective gift or donation.
Four, consideration of specific
personnel matters. Five, discussion
about security personnel or devices. Or
six, discussion of certain economic
development matters. The board may also
announce that it will go into executive
session on any item listed on this
agenda if the subject matter is
permitted for a closed session by
provisions of chapter 551 of the Texas
government code. Any vote regarding
these items shall be taken in open
session. Item 1.3.1. Discussion with
legal council regarding negotiation of
ground lease agreement with Gano Theo
ISD regarding EPCC Northwest Campus
pursuant to section
551.072 of the Texas government code.
Item 1.3.2 2 discussion with legal
council regarding proposed amendment to
board resolution for the student success
endowment fund pursuant to section
551.073 of the Texas government code.
The time is now 5:52 p.m. and the board
is in executive session.
1.9. We're back in session. Okay, we're
back in uh general session. Uh uh read
1.9.6. Six.
I will read 1.9.5 if that's okay. Oh,
that one. Yeah, that'll be 1.9.5.
Discussion and action to approve the
first amended and restated resolution
for the student success endowment fund.
Do I have a motion? Motion to
go ahead.
I make a motion to approve it as it was
discussed in executive session. Second.
Any discussion? Call a question. Bill,
Mr. Mr. Hi Mrs. Robless. Hi Miss Nahara.
Hi Mr. Mendes. Hi Mrs. Moy. Hi Dr.
Graham. Hi Mr. Hagerty. I
1.9.6 there's no action needed.
Be very bad.
And our next board meeting is going to
be in this room on June 25th at 4:30.
So, if you'd like to attend, mark your
calendars. And we have a motion to
adjourn.
We are motion to adjourn. Yeah. Move to
All right. Thank you all so much.